In this video we're going to start working on a new little project based entirely inside the browser.
This is going to be a project focusing on just practicing some of our basic javascript skills particularly
classes and functions.
Let's take a look at a mockup and get a better idea of what we're going to be building.
All right here we go.
So we're going to be making a somewhat simple little timer application when a user visits our application
site the browser we're going to show them a number like 30 right there a play button and a pause button
whenever the user clicks on play.
We're then going to count this timer down.
So in this case it starts at 30 seconds after one second we'll go down to twenty nine then 28 27 and
so on until he eventually gets all the way down to zero as that timer is counting down.
A user can posit at any time by clicking on the pause button right there and then resume it by clicking
on play again.
Now I'm sure this seems like a very simple and straightforward application kind of basic kind of boring.
But there are going to be a couple of elements inside of here that kind of make it a little bit more
challenging and a little bit more interesting.
Overall it's the first thing I want you to notice is that there's this circle around the timer itself.
We're going to have a circle drawn around the timer element.
And as this timer counts down from 30 27 26 and so on we're going to essentially revolve the timer so
you can imagine this as kind of being like a border and the border is going to kind of fill up around
the outside all the way until it gets to the very top again.
Now it's kind of a bad description of what's going on but as soon as we start writing some code you'll
get a better idea.
The point is that we're going to have an animated little border around the edge of this element.
The other thing we're going to do to make this just a little bit more interesting is we're going to
make sure that a user can click on that number right there whenever they click on it.
We're gonna turn that thing into a text input.
So a user can change the timer to say count down from ten seconds or five seconds or whatever else.
So it's not fixed at 30 or anything.
A user can change it to any time that they want.
And of course once it counts down all the way to zero the user can then click in there update the timer
to say 60 seconds and start it all over again OK.
So although it's going to be kind of straightforward in nature there are these couple of extra things
that are definitely going to have to figure out in the border part in particular is going to actually
be kind of challenging for you have to figure out some interesting stuff in the browser to really make
that work.
All right.
So now that we've got a better idea of what we're going to be working on let's take a pause right here
and start to do some projects set up in the next video.